---
title: How To Dockerize npm and npx
date: 2020-06-21 14:05:30
tags:
---
This approach will make you able to run npm or npx without installing it in your laptop / development machine.

## Dockerizing npm and npx
I love running and installing my development dependencies from container,
so I can keep my laptop / development machine clean and consuming less memory.

In this article we are going to move the npm and npx installation inside docker container.

**Prerequisites:**
- You have docker installed in your machine
- Internet connection

Now, create a `Dockerfile` with the content below:
```
FROM node:latest

WORKDIR /usr/src/app

ENTRYPOINT [ "npx" ]
```

**The origin of containerized npm and npx**
Still inside the same directory where you store the `Dockerfile` above, run the command below:
```
docker build -t npx .
```
That's it!!!


## How I use npm and npx
Below is the example how you use npm or npx from docker container:

So basically use the way I use npm or npx from docker container is by following the command template below:
```
docker run -v ${PWD}:/usr/src/app npx:latest npx/npm command/package argument/command
```

Take a note that any file or directory generation will be generated inside the same directory where you run the command above.
That is because of this argument: `-v ${PWD}:/usr/src/app`.
The `npx:latest` is the image name generated by the docker build command above.

**Example: Create a new react app**
```
docker run -v ${PWD}:/usr/src/app npx:latest npx create-react-app my-app
```
The command above will create a new react app (named my-app) using create-react-app cli.
When completed, you're gonna see a new directory named `my-app` inside your current directory.


## Real life example: The creation of this site
The real life example is the way I use npx to generate this [site](https://solaiman.me).

**Generate the very first hexo site**
```
docker run -v ${PWD}:/usr/src/app npx:latest npx hexo init solaiman.me
```
The command will create a new directory: solaiman.me.
And that will be the skeleton of static website by [hexo](https://hexo.io).
Please visit this [documentation](https://hexo.io/docs/setup) on how hexo does it.

**The complete example**
Below is my docker-compose file where I orchestrate my local hexo container.
```
version: "3.4"

services:
  solaiman.me:
    image: npx:latest
    volumes:
      - ${PWD}:/usr/src/app
    container_name: solaiman.me
    ports:
      - "4000:4000"
    command: hexo server
  
  generate:
    image: npx:latest
    volumes:
      - ${PWD}:/usr/src/app
    command: hexo generate
  
  deploy:
    image: npx:latest
    volumes:
      - ${PWD}:/usr/src/app
    command: hexo deploy
```
To run hexo server locally:
```
docker-compose up solaiman.me
```
Without docker-compose file this command is equal to the command above:
```
docker run -v ${PWD}:/usr/src/app npx:latest -p 4000:4000 npx hexo server
```

To generate the static files:
```
docker-compose run generate
```

## TLDR

Create a `Dockerfile` with the content below:
```
FROM node:latest

WORKDIR /usr/src/app

ENTRYPOINT [ "npx" ]
```

Build the image (npx:latest) in your machine:
```
docker build -t npx .
```

And use this template command to run your npm or npx command:
```
docker run -v ${PWD}:/usr/src/app npx:latest npx/npm <things-that-following-npm-or-npx-are-here>
```
